The main arguments in favor of the document data model are schema flexibility, better performance due to locality, and that for some applications it is closer to the data structures used by the application. The relational model counters by providing better suport for joins, and many-to-one and many-to-many relationships.

If the application does use many-to-many relationship, the document model become less appealing. It's possible to reduce the need for joins by denormalizing, but the the application code needs to do additional work to keep the denormalized data consistent. Joins can be emulated in application code by making multiple requests to the database, but that also moves complexity into the application and is usually slower than a join performed by specializedd code inside the database. In such cases, using a document model can lead to significantly more complex and worse performance.

Document databases are sometimes called schemaless, but that's misleading, as the code that reads the data usually assumes some kind of structure - i.e: there is an implicit schema, but it is not enforced by the database.

A document is usually stored as a single continuous string, encoded as JSON, XML, or a binary variant thereof (such as MongDB's BSON). If your application often needs to access the entire document, there is a performance advantage to this storage locality. The locality advantage only applies if you need large parts of the document at the same time. The database typically needs to load the entire document, even if you access only a small portion of it, which can be wasteful on large documents. On updates to a document, the entire document usually needs to be rewritten, only modifications that don't change the encoded size of a document can easily be performed in place. For these reasons, it is generally recommended that you keep documents fairly small and avoid writes that increase the size of a document.